BPM Library: Array
==================

Basic array manipulation functions for Bash.


Installation
============

Add to your `bpm.ini` file the following dependency.

    [dependencies]
    array=*

Run `bpm install` to add the library. Finally, use it in your scripts.

    #!/usr/bin/env bash
    . bpm
    bpm::include array


API
===


[//]: # (AUTOGENERATED FROM libarray - START)

`array::contains()`
-------------------

Determines if a value is in an array.

* $1    - The value to seek in the array.
* $2-$@ - Array elements.

Examples

    local index list

    list=(one two three "four four")

    if array::contains one "${list[@]}"; then
        # This one works
        echo "one is found"
    fi

    if array::contains four "${list[@]}"; then
        echo "four should not be found"
        echo "'four four' with a space would be found"
    fi

Returns true (0) if $1 is found in the list of other arguments, false (1) otherwise.


`array::filter()`
-----------------

Run a list of values through a filter. When the filter returns an error, remove that element from the list.

* $1    - Variable name where the final list will be placed.
* $2    - Function or command to run. Receives one argument: a single value from the list.
* $3-$@ - List of values in the array.

Examples

    removeAnimals() {
        case "$1" in
            dog|cat|cow|moose)
                # Return failure and the elements will be removed.
                return 1
                ;;
        esac

        return 0
    }

    words=(a dog and a cat chased a cow)
    array::filter filtered removeAnimals "${words[@]}"

    # Prints "a and a chased a". The special hyphen allows you to print an
    # empty array in strict mode.
    echo "${filtered[@]-}"

Returns nothing.


`array::indexOf()`
------------------

Check if a value is in an array.  If the value is found, the index within the array is assigned to the destination variable and this returns true. If it is not in the array, nothing is assigned and the function returns an error.

* $1    - Destination value for storing the index that is found.
* $2    - The value to seek in the array.
* $3-$@ - Array elements.

The destination variable is only set when the element is found.

Examples

    local index list

    list=(one two three "four four")

    if array::indexOf index one "${list[@]}"; then
        # This one works
        echo "one is found at index $index"
    fi

    if array::indexOf index four "${list[@]}"; then
        echo "four should not be found"
        echo "'four four' with a space would be found"
        echo "\$index will not be updated"
    fi

Returns success if $1 is found in the list of other arguments.


`array::join()`
---------------

Join / implode an array

* $1    - Variable name to receive the joined content
* $2    - Joiner
* $3-$@ - Elements to join

Returns nothing.

[//]: # (AUTOGENERATED FROM libarray - END)


License
=======

This project is placed under an [MIT License](LICENSE.md).
